Author	Title	Institution	Completed
Adams, Kyle	A New Theory of Chromaticism from the Late Sixteenth to the Early Eighteenth Century	CUNY Graduate Center	September 2006
Adlington, Robert C.	Temporality in post-tonal music	University of Sussex	September 1996
Alegant, Brian	The Seventy-Seven Partitions of the Aggregate: Analytical and Theoretical Implications	Eastman School of Music	October 1992
Amato, Alexander G.	Thematic and Formal Narrative in Respighi’s Sinfonia Drammatica	University of North Texas	November 2013
Amos, Laura Christine	An Examination of 1920s Parisian Polytonality: Milhaud's Ballet La Creation du monde	The University of Texas at Austin	May 2007
Andrew Aziz	In Name Only: The Interaction of Title and Genre in the Sonata Forms of Debussy and Ravel	Eastman School of Music, University of Rochester	April 2013
Anson-Cartwright, Mark	The Development Section in Haydn's Late Instrumental Works	City University of New York	August 1998
Antonio Jardim	Music: vigency of poetical thinking	UFRJ Doctor in Poetics	December 1997
Argentino, Joe R	Transformations and Hexatonic Tonnetz Spaces in Late Works of Schoenberg	The University of Western Ontario	February 2010
Ariyan, Ashot	Bilgamesh, un ballet-opéra en deux actes Symbiose d’un genre oublié, une mythologie archaïque et une langue morte	University of Montreal	December 2012
Arndt, Matthew	 Schenker and Schoenberg on the Tone and the Genius	University of Wisconsin—Madison	August 2008	
Arthurs, Daniel J. Reconstructing Tonal Principles in the Music of Brad Mehldau	Indiana University, Bloomington	May 2011	
Atkinson, Sean E	An Analytical Model for the Study of Multimedia Compositions: A Case Study in Minimalist Music	Florida State University	April 2009	
Attar, Ron	Analysis of Bela Bartok's Performances to Selected Compositions	Bar-Ilan University, Israel	June 2007	
Attas, Robin E.S.	Meter as Process in Groove-Based Popular Music	The University of British Columbia	April 2011	
Auerbach, Brent, L	The Analytical Grundgestalt: A New Model and Methodology Based on the Music of Johannes Brahms	University of Rochester - Eastman School of Music	May 2005	
Auerbach, Jennifer Sadoff	Drafts, Page Proofs, and Revisions of Heinrich Schenker’s Der freie Satz: the Collection at the Austrian National Library and Schenker’s Generative Process	University of North Texas	May 2009	
Austin, Michael 	The Phenomenological Impact of Interface on the Analysis of Digital Music and Sonic Art	University of Texas at Dallas	June 2011	
Ayotte, Benjamin McKay	Incomplete Ursatzformen Transferences in the Vocal Music of Heinrich Schenker	Michigan State University	May 2008	
BaileyShea, Matthew L.	The Wagnerian Satz: The Rhetoric of the Sentence in Wagner's Post-Lohengrin Operas	Yale University	May 2003	
Bakker, Sara	Playing with Patterns: Isorhythmic Strategies in György Ligeti\'s Late Piano Works	Indiana University	April 2013	
Ballard, Jack D., Jr.	Part One: The Castle (Ballet for Large Orchestra) and Part Two: Hyperextended Chord Tones: Chromatic Consonance in a Tertian Context	Kent State University	December 2008	
Balter, Tamara	A Theory of Irony in Music: Types of Irony in the String Quartets of Haydn and Beethoven.	Indiana University, Bloomington (Music Theory)	November 2009
Barker, Naomi Joy	Analytical Issues in the Toccatas of Girolamo Frescobaldi	University of London	July 1995
Barley, Raymond B., Jr.	Tonality and Modality in Finnish Folk Music	Union Institute & University	April 2011
Bauer, Amy, M	Compositional Process and Parody in the Music of Gyorgy Ligeti	Yale University	August 1996
Beaudoin, Paul E	Rhetoric as a Heuristic in the First Movement of Beethoven's Third Sonata for Violoncello and Piano, op. 69	Brandeis University	February 2002
Behrens, Lisa, S.	Cyclic Pitch Organization in the Twelve-Tone Works of Aaron Copland	The Graduate Center, CUNY	October 2012
Belcher, Owen H	Analytical Studies of Selected Cantatas by J.S. Bach	Eastman School of Music	April 2018
Bell, Vicki P.	Shaker Music Theory: The Nineteenth-Century Treatises of Isaac Newton Youngs and Russel Haskell	University of Kentucky	May 1998
Benoit, John R.	An Alternative Model of Fundamental Structure in Selected Lieder by Franz Schubert	The University of Texas at Austin	August 1994
Bernstein, Zachary	Reconsidering Organicism in Milton Babbitt\'s Music and Thought	CUNY Graduate Center	June 2015
Berry, David Carson	Stravinsky's "Skeletons": Reconnoitering the Evolutionary Paths from Variation Sets to Serialism	Yale University	March 2002
Bhogal, Gurminder	Maurice Ravel, Metric Dissonance, Art Nouveau, Ornament, French Aesthetics, Symbolism, Arabesque	University of Chicago	August 2004
Biamonte, Nicole V	The Modes in Romantic Music	Yale University	March 1998
Bisciglia, Sebastiano	On Row-Class Equivalence Classes	Eastman School of Music, University of Rochester	April 2013
Blom-Smith, Richard N. W.	A Theory of Accent in Tonal Music with an Assessment of Selected Modern Accentologies	King's College London, University of London	April 1994
Boland, Marguerite M	The All-Trichord Hexachord: Compositional Strategies in Elliott Carter's "Con Leggerezza" and "Gra".	La Trobe University, Melbourne, Australia	December 1999
Bor, Mustafa	Contour Reduction Algorithms: A Theory of Pitch and Duration Hierarchies for Post-Tonal Music	University of British Columbia	April 2009
Boss, Jack F.	An Analogue to Developing Variation in a Late Atonal Song of Arnold Schoenberg	Yale University	May 1991
Botelho, Mauro	Rhythm, Meter, and Phrase: Temporal Structures in Johann Sebastian Bach's Concertos	University of Michigan	March 1993
Bourne, Janet E	A Theory of Analogy for Musical Sense-Making and Categorization: Understanding Musical Jabberwocky	Northwestern University	May 2015
Boyd, James W.	Mahler and Directional Tonality	University of Michigan	September 1993
Bradford, Wesley J	Developing a Mathematically Informed Approach to Musical Narrative through the Analysis of Three Twentieth-Century Monophonic Woodwind Works	Louisiana State University	June 2016
Brasky, Jill Tovah	'Far Have I Flown': Chromatic Dominants and Functional Transformations in Schoenberg's Gurrelieder	University of Buffalo	May 2005
Brass, Christophe	La basse fondamentale dans le Clavier bien tempéré de J. S. Bach	Université Strasbourg II (= Université Marc Bloch)	September 2001
Bribitzer-Stull, Matthew, P.	Thematic Development and Dramatic Association in Wagner's Der Ring des Nibelungen	Eastman School of Music	July 2001
Broesche, Garreth P	The Intimacy of Distance: Glenn Gould and the Poetics of the Recording Studio	University of Wisconsin-Madison	March 2015
Brover-Lubovsky, Bella	Vivaldi's Harmony: Practice and Theory	Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel	October 2000
Brown, Jenine L.	Cognitive Models of Interval Perception in Twelve-Tone Music: Hearing Webern\'s Concerto, Op. 24, and Other Works	University of Rochester-Eastman School of Music	April 2014
Brown, Stephen C.	Dual Interval Space in Twentieth-Century Music	Yale University	May 1999
Bruno, Luca	Theory and Analysis of Harmony in Adrian Willaert's Canzone villanesche alla napolitana (1542-1545)	University of Trento, Italy	January 2009
Bryden, Kristy A.	Musical Conclusions: Exploring Closural Processes in Five Late Twentieth-Century Chamber Works	University of Wisconsin-Madison	May 2001
Buchler, Michael H.	Relative Saturation of Subsets and Interval Cycles as a Means for Determining Set-Class Similarity	Eastman School of Music	October 1997
Buehrer, Theodore E.	An Alternative Pedagogical Paradigm for Aural Skills: An Examination of Constructivist Learning Theory and its Potential for Implementation into Aural Skills Curricula	Indiana University	December 1998
Buhler, James	Informal Music Analysis: A Critique of Formalism, Semiology, and Narratology As Discourses on Music	University of Pennsylvania	May 1996
Burkett, Lyn Ellen Thornblad	Tensile Involvement: Counterpoint and Compositional Pedagogy in the Work of Seeger, Hindemith, and Krenek	Indiana University	April 2001
Burns, Alexandra	The Musical Voices of the “Double-Man”: Nature and Religious Identity in Gustav Mahler’s First Symphony	The University of Sheffield	May 2016
Burns, Alexandra	\'Sterben werd\' ich, um zu leben!\': The Eschatological Questions in Gustav Mahler\'s Second Symphony	The University of Sheffield	September 2017
Burns, Kristine H.	The History and Development of Algorithms in Music Composition, 1957-93	Ball State University	April 1994
Burton, Deborah, E.	An Analysis of Puccini's Tosca: a heuristic approach to the unifying elements of the opera	University of Michigan	May 1995
Butterfield, Matthew W.	Jazz Analysis and the Production of Musical Community: A Situational Perspective	University of Pennsylvania	May 2000
Byrne, David A.	The Harmonic Theories of Sigfrid Karg-Elert: Acoustics, Function, Transformation, Perception	University of Cincinnati	March 2018
Byron, Avior	Schoenberg as Performer: An Aesthetics in Practice	Royal Holloway, University of London	June 2007
Cahn, Steven J.	Variations in Manifold Time: Historical Consciousness in the Music and Writings of Arnold Schoenberg	SUNY at Stony Brook	August 1996
Cairns, Zachary A.	Multiple-Row Serialism in Three Works by Edison Denisov	University of Rochester (Eastman School of Music)	April 2010
Campbell, Edward	Boulez and Expression: A Deleuzoguattarian Approach	University of Edinburgh	June 2000
Capuzzo, Guy	Variety Within Unity: Expressive Ends and their Technical Means in the Music of Elliott Carter, 1983-1994	Eastman School of Music, University of Rochester	December 1999
Carey, Norman, A	Distribution Modulo 1 and Musical Scales	University of Rochester	February 1998
Carter, Chandler	The Progress in "The Rake's" Return	The City University of New York	January 1995
Castine, Peter	Set Theory Objects: Abstractions for Computer-Aided Analysis and Composition of Serial and Atonal Music	Technische Universitaet Berlin	January 1994
Castren, Marcus	RECREL: A Similarity Measure for Set-Classes	Sibelius Academy	December 1994
Cathey, Sheila C.	Profiles, Perceptions, and Practices Related to Customizable Computer-Aided Instruction (MacGAMUT) Among Postsecondary Aural-Training Instructors	Boston University	May 2014
Cavanagh, Lynn, M.	Tonal Multiplicity in Schoenberg's First String Quartet, Op. 7	The University of British Columbia	June 1996
Chang, Sangtae	Boulez's Sonatine and the Genesis of his Twelve-tone Practice	The University of North Texas	March 1998
Chenette, Timothy K	Counterpoint, Transformations, and Musical Spaces in the Late Sixteenth Century	Indiana University	May 2013
Chong, Eddy K. M.	Extending Schenker’s Neue musikalische Theorien und Phantasien: Towards a Schenkerian	University of Rochester, Eastman School of Music	May 2002
Chor, Ives	Cognitive Frameworks for the Production of Musical Rhythm	Northwestern University	June 2010
Chung, Andrew J	Music as Performative Utterance: Towards a Unified Theory of Musical Meaning with Applications in 21st-Century Works and Social Life	Yale University	March 2019
Chung, Heewon	Semitonal Relationships in Chopin\'s Music	University of Michigan	April 2015
Clement, Brett	A Study of the Instrumental Music of Frank Zappa	University of Cincinnati	July 2009
Clevenger, John R.	The Origins of Debussy's Style	University of Rochester	March 1993
Coenen, Alcedo, E.	Meta-Plus: Stockhausen's Plus-Minus computerized and analyzed	University of Amsterdam	November 1995
Cohen, Gilad	Expansive Rock: Large-Scale Structure in the Music of Pink Floyd	Princeton University	June 2015
Collaros, Pandel, L.	Quanti-MAS: A Quantitative System of Melodic Analysis	Ohio State University	December 1996
Cornicello, Anthony M.	Timbral Organization in Tristan Murail's "Désintégrations" and "Rituals"	Brandeis University	May 2000
Cotner, John S.	Archetypes of Progressive Rock, ca. 1966-1973	University of Wisconsin-Madison	December 1999
Cox, Arnie W.	The Metaphoric Logic of Musical Motion and Space	University of Oregon	June 1999
Cramer, Alfred W.	Music for the Future: Sounds of Early Twentieth-Century Psychology and Language in Works of Schoenberg, Webern, and Berg, 1908 to the First World War	University of Pennsylvania	April 1997
Crownfield, Elizabeth E.	The Intellectual Backgrounds of Morley's Plaine and Easie Introduction	New York University	January 2000
Cuciurean, John D.	A Theory of Pitch, Rhythm, and Intertextual Allusion for the Late Music of György Ligeti	State University of New York at Buffalo	August 2000
Cutler, Timothy S.	Orchestration and the Analysis of Tonal Music: Interaction between Orchestration and Other Musical Parameters in Selected Symphonic Compositions, c. 1785-1835	Yale University	March 2000
Cvetkov, Vasil A.	“CHROMATIC FANTASY SONATA” BY DAVE BRUBECK	Louisiana State University	December 2010	
Danby, Judd	Array and Superarray Structure and Projection in Milton Babbitt's recent Orchestral Music	University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign	November 1997	Davis, Colin
Polyphonic Harmony in Three of Ferruccio Busoni\'s Orchestral Elegies	University of North Texas	May 2015	Day-O\'Connell, Jeremy
Pentatonicism in Nineteenth-Century Music	Cornell University	August 2002	de Clercq, Trevor O.
Sections and Successions in Successful Songs: A Prototype Approach to Form in Rock Music	Eastman School of Music, University of Rochester	January 2012	Decker, Bradley D
Preserving the Fragment: Techniques and Traits of Franco Donatoni's Joyous Period (1977 to 2000)	University of Illinois at Urbana - Champaign	January 2006	Decker, Gregory J.
The Language of Baroque Opera: Topic, Structure, and Characterization in Handel's Italian-Language Operas	Florida State University	April 2011	Deguchi, Tomoko
Forms of Temporal Experience in the Music of Toru Takemitsu	University at Buffalo, SUNY	November 2005	Dellosa, Lerie Grace
Messiaen\'s Musical Language: Technique and Theological Symbolism in Les Corps glorieux, \"Combat de la mort et de la vie\"	University of North Texas	October 2015	DeMotta, David J
The Contributions of Earl \"Bud\" Powell to the Modern Jazz Style	Graduate Center, City University of New York	May 2015	Demske, Thomas R.
Recognizing Melodic Motion in Musical Scores: Rules and Contexts	Yale University	March 1993	Derfler, Brandon
Single-Voice Transformations: A Model for Parsimonious Voice Leading	University of Washington	November 2007	Derkert, Jacob
Tonalitet och harmonisk artikulation i Claude Debussys verk. Om reception, armonikteori och analys	University of Stockholm	October 1998	DeThorne, Jeffrey D.
ORCHESTRATING ELECTROACOUSTICS: ON THE AESTHETICS OF INSTRUMENTATION, ORCHESTRATION, AND ELECTRONIC MUSIC	University of Wisconsin-Madison	August 2010
Djordjevic, Michael, L.	Discrete Tone Relations Determined by the Hearing Phenomenon within Five-Dimensional Sound-Musical Continuum	Radio Belgrade, Hilandarska 2, 11000 Belgrade, Serbia, YU	June 1995
Dodds, Michael R.	The Baroque Church Tones in Theory and Practice	University of Rochester	January 1999
Doerksen, John F.	A Theory of Set-class Salience for Post-tonal Music, with Analyses of Selected Lieder by Anton Webern	University of Western Ontario	June 1994
Dogantan, Mine	Mathis Lussy's Theory of Rhythm as a Basis for a Theory of Expressive Performance	Columbia University, New York	May 1997
Dolenko, Elena	Schoenberg. The Early Years. [Molodoy Schoenberg]	Moscow State Tchaikovsky Conservatory	May 2003
Doll, Christopher	Listening to Rock Harmony	Columbia University	May 2007
Douw, Andre, M.	The Construction of Order and Direction in Igor Stravinsky's In Memoriam Dylan Thomas, Canticum Sacrum, and Threni	Utrecht University	March 1995
Dudeque, Norton E.	Music Theory and Analysis in the Writings of Arnold Schoenberg (1874-1951)	University of Reading	April 2002
Dudeque, Norton E.	Tonal Harmony and the Concept of Monotonality in the Writings of Arnold Schoenberg	Universidade de Sao Paulo	June 1997
Duncan, Stuart P	The Concept of New Complexity: Notation, Interpretation and Analysis	Cornell University	May 2010
Edith, Zack	Carmen and Turandot: femme fatale to femme creatrice in opera	Bar-Ilan University, Israel	June 2000
Endrinal, Christopher James Scott	Form and Style in the Music of U2	Florida State University	April 2008
Eng, Clare Sher Ling	Motif and Closure in Twentieth-Century Music: Bartók, Britten and Fauré	Yale University	March 2012
Ensign, Jeffrey S.	Form in Popular Song, 1990-2009	University of North Texas	August 2015
Essl, Karlheinz	Das Synthese-Denken bei Anton Webern. Studien zur Musikauffassung des spaeten Webern unter besonderen Beruecksichtigung seiner eigenen Analysen zu op. 28 und op. 30. ("Anton Webern's idea of synthesis". Studies on the musical thinking of the late Webern c	University of Vienna	May 1989
Evan Ware	Their Ways: Theorizing Reinterpretation in Popular Music	University of Michigan	May 2015
Fancher, Joseph E.	Pitch Organization in the Turangalîla-Symphonie of Olivier Messiaen	University of Oregon	March 2003
Fankhauser, Gabe	Cadential Intervention and Tonal Expansion in Select Works of Shostakovich
Florida State University	December 1999	Fielding, Peter G
The Traditional Vocal Repertoire of Nova Scotia: A Classification of Pitch Space	University of Massachusetts Amherst	February 2014
Fiore, Carlo	I mottetti di Josquin Desprez: interpretazione attraverso l'analisi	University of Bologna, Dipartimento di Musica e Spettacolo	April 1998
Fishbein, Joshua H.	Leonard Bernstein\'s Chichester Psalms: An Analysis and Companion Piece	University of California, Los Angeles	December 2014
Flinn, John W.	Reconstructive Postmodernism, Quotation, and Musical Analysis: A Methodology with Reference to the Third Movement of Luciano Berio	University of Cincinnati	May 2011
Foley, Gretchen	Pitch and Interval Structures in George Perle's Theory of Twelve-Tone Tonality	University of Western Ontario	January 1999
Folio, Cynthia J.	An Analysis and Comparison of Four Compositions by Joseph Schwantner: And the Mountains Rising Nowhere; Wild Angels of the Open Hills; Aftertones of Infinity; and Sparrows	Eastman School of Music	May 1985
Follet, Diane W.	Echo - A Chamber Opera in One Act: The Woman's Voice in the Twentieth Century	University of Northern Colorado	August 2000
Forrest, David L.	Prolongation in the Choral Music of Benjamin Britten	Texas Tech University	May 2009
Foulkes-Levy, Laurdella	A Synthesis of Recent Theories of Tonal Melody, Contour, and the Diatonic Scale: Implications for Aural Perception and Cognition	SUNY Buffalo	September 1996
Francis, Timothy P	Modal Prolongational Structure in Selected Sacred Choral Compositions by Gustav Holst and Ralph Vaughan Williams	University of Oregon	June 2012
Fung, Eric W.M.	The Performance of Chopin's First Movement of Piano Sonata in B Minor, op. 58: A Schenkerian Approach	The Chinese University of Hong Kong	June 1995
Fyr, Kyle R.	Proportion, Temporality, and Performance Issues in Piano Works of John Adams	Indiana University	July 2011
Gadd, Robin N.	Theorizing Musical Style	University of Southampton	July 1997
Garrison, Rodney	Schenker's Ausfaltung Unfolded: Notation, Terminology, and Practice	University at Buffalo	December 2011
Gerg, Ian W	The Virtual Observing Agent in Music: A Theory of Agential Perspective as Implied by Indexical Gesture	University of Texas at Austin	August 2015
Gerlach, Oliver	Im Labyrinth des Oktōīchos — Über die Rekonstruktion einer mittelalterlichen Improvisationspraxis in der Musik der Ost- & Westkirche	Humboldt University	July 2006
Gersh, Jason A	Text-Setting in William Byrd's Liber primus sacrarum cantionum quinque vocum (1589): Toward an Analytic Methodology	University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill	December 2006
Geyer, Benjamin M.	Meter, Phrase, and Form in the Compositions of Maria Schneider	University of Kentucky	April 2016
Giovinazzo, Joseph	Timbral Design of Primary Melody in the First Movement of Bartok's Concerto for Orchestra	La Trobe University	June 1992
Gleason, Scott M.	Princeton Theory\'s Problematics	Columbia University	October 2013
Gloag, Kenneth	Structure, Syntax and Style in the Music of Stravinsky	University of Exeter	February 1995
Goldenberg, Yosef	Prolongation of Seventh Chords in Tonal Music	Hebrew University, Jerusalem	December 2001
Gollin, Edward H.	Representations of Space and Conceptions of Distance in Transformational Music Theories	Harvard University	June 2000
Gonzales, Cynthia I.	Text-Music Relationships in the Early Songs of Arnold Schoenberg	Harvard University	October 2005
Gonzales-Lizausaba, Oswaldo	A Formalized Analysis of Luciano Berio's Erdenklavier for Piano Solo: An Undulatory Approach	Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales, IRCAM, CNRS (Paris)	June 1997
Gonzalez-Lizausaba Oswaldo	L'analyse ondulatoire : une approche morphologique de l'analyse musicale	Doctor in Arts & Sciences of art - Université de Paris 1	March 2010
Gosman, Alan R.	Compositional Approaches to Canons from Ockeghem to Brahms	Harvard University	August 2000
Grall, Jeremy N.	An Analytical Edition of Giovanni Kapsberger's "Partite sulla folia" for Chitarrone: Ornamentation, Performance Practices, and Compositional Structures in Kapsberger's Folia Variations	University of Memphis	April 2009
Grant, Aaron B.	Schubert\'s Three-Key Expositions	Eastman School of Music	June 2018
Greitzer, Mary L	Tormented Voices	Harvard University	August 2007
Grossman, E. Lary	Fugal Procedures in the Symphonies of Joseph Haydn	Northwestern University	December 1993
Grove, Paul R.	Doctrine of the Canon: An Annotated Translation of the Second Counterpoint Book of Sergei Ivanovich Taneev	University of Arizona	January 1996
Guerra, Stephen P.	Expanded Meter and Hemiola in Baden Powell\'s Samba-Jazz	Yale University	April 2018
Guigue, Didier	Une Étude "pour les Sonorités Opposées": Pour une analyse "orientée objets" de l'oeuvre pour piano de Debussy et de la musique du 20è siècle	Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales, Paris	April 1996
Hafner, Everett	Time Divided	University of Massachusetts at Amherst	August 1995
Hamm, Chelsey L	Charles Ives and Democracy: Association, Borrowing, and Treatment of Dissonance in His Music	Indiana University	December 2016
Hannon, Andrew C	EXPANSION AND CONTRACTION IN MOVEMENTS I AND VII OF GYÖRGY LIGETI’S HAMBURG CONCERTO	University of South Carolina	April 2014
Hansen, Thomas Holme	From Mode to Key. An Investigation of European Modal/Tonal Theories in the Seventeenth Century [in Danish]	University of Aarhus (Denmark)	June 1996
Hare, Belva Jean	The Uses and Aesthetics of Musical Borrowing in Erik Satie’s Humoristic Piano Suites, 1913-1917	University of Texas at Austin	December 2005
Harley, Konrad	Harmonic Function in the Music of Sergei Prokofiev	University of Toronto	April 2014
Harley, Maria, A.	Space and spatialization in contemporary music: History and analysis, ideas and implementations	McGill University	June 1994
Harper, Steven A.	Minimal Interval Content Descriptions	University of Texas at Austin	May 1994
Harris, Joseph H.	Harmony in Olivier Messiaen's Eclairs sur l'Au-Dela	University of Iowa	September 2000
Hastings, Charise Y.	The Performer's Role: Storytelling in Ballades of Chopin and Brahms	University of Michigan--Ann Arbor	April 2006
Hauck-Silva, Caiti	Diction, Expressivity and Conductor’s Choices in Choral Works Sung in German: Discussing Relationships Between Writings and Recordings	University of São Paulo	March 2017
Heap, Matthew	Keep Going: Narrative Continuity in Luciano Berio\'s Sinfonia AND Dillinger: An American Oratorio	University of Pittsburgh	April 2012
Heinzelmann, Sigrun B	Sonata Form in Ravel's Pre-War Chamber Music	CUNY Graduate Center	February 2008
Herlin, Thomas R.	Carl Ruggles and the Viennese Tradition: A Comparative Analysis	University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign	April 2000
Hibberd, Kristian P. G.	Shostakovich and Bakhtin: A Critical Investigation of the Late Works (1974-1975)	Goldsmiths College, University of London	June 2005
Hill, David S.	The Persistence of Memory: Mode, Trope, and Difference in the Passion Chorale	SUNY at Stony Brook	April 1994
Hoag, Melissa E. 	Multiply-Directed Moments in the Music of Brahms	Indiana University	May 2008
Hodson, Robert D.	Interaction and Improvisation: Group Interplay in Jazz Performance	University of Wisconsin--Madison	August 2000
Hoffman, Stanley M.	Extended Tonality and Voice Leading in Twelve Songs, Op. 27 by Alexander Zemlinsky	Brandeis University	February 1993
Hoffmann, Peter	Music Out of Nothing? The Dynamic Stochastic Synthesis: a Rigorous Approach to Algorithmic Composition by Iannis Xenakis	Technische Universitaet Berlin	January 1998
Hoffmann, Peter	Music Out of Nothing? A Rigorous Approach to Algorithmic Composition by Iannis Xenakis	Technische Universit	December 2009
Hook, Julian L.	Uniform Triadic Transformations	Indiana University	May 2002
Hooper, Jason A.	Heinrich Schenker’s Early Approach to Form, 1895–1921: Implications for His Late Work and Its Reception
CUNY Graduate Center	February 2017	Hudlow, Adam M.
HARMONY, VOICE LEADING, AND DRAMA IN THREE SONDHEIM MUSICALS	Louisiana State University	December 2013	Hughes, Bryn
Harmonic Expectation in Twelve-Bar Blues Progressions	Florida State University	August 2011	Huguet, Joan C
Formal Functions and Voice-Leading Structures in Beethoven’s Early Sonata-Rondo Finales	Eastman School of Music	April 2015
Hunt, Graham G.	\"Ever New Formal Structures\": The Evolution of the Dialogue-Scene in Wagner\'s Lohengrin	Duke University	May 2001
Hussey, William Gregory	Compositional Modeling and Quotation in the Works of Johannes Brahms: An Application of Harold Bloom's Theory of Influence to Music	University of Texas at Austin	December 1996
Igoudin, Lane	Impact of MIDI on Electroacoustic Art Music	Stanford University	June 1997
Iker, Sarah M.	An Experience-Oriented Approach to Analyzing Stravinsky\'s Neoclassicism	University of Chicago	August 2017
Ilomäki, Tuukka	On the Similarity of Twelve-Tone Rows	Sibelius Academy	April 2008
Isaacson (Gozali) Atara	Cantabile in the Romantic Piano Concerti with Emphasis on Schumann, Liszt and Brahms	Bar Ilan University	November 2006
Iverson, Jennifer	Historical Memory and György Ligeti's Sound-Mass Music, 1958-1968	University of Texas at Austin	May 2009
Jacobus, Enoch S. A.	A New Geometric Model and Methodology for Understanding Parsimonious Seventh-Sonority Pitch-Class Space	University of Kentucky	October 2012
Jacobus-Freund, Suzanne A.	The Art of Development: Development and the Development section Seen Through the Eyes of Theorists, ca. 1775-1830	Yale University	May 1998
Jakubowski, Joseph R.	Between Concept and Perception: Cognition, Experience, and Form in Spectral Music	Washington University in St. Louis	May 2019
James, Emma R.	Telling Tales: Narrative Semiotics in the Music of Béla Bartók	Eastman School of Music, University of Rochester	August 2016
Jardim, Antonio	Music: another density of real - to a philosophy of a substantive language	Conservatorio Brasileiro de Musica	March 1988
Jedlicka, Jason R.	Interpreting Steve Reich\\\'s Later Music (2007-2012)	Indiana University	November 2018
Johnson, Barrett A	An Original Composition, Galleria Armonica, Theme and Variations for Piano, Harpsichord, Harp and Orchestra and A Comparative Study Between the Pedagogical Methodologies of Arnold Schoenberg and Nadia Boulanger Regarding Training the Composer	Louisiana State University	November 2007
Johnson, Russell W.	Essais sur les Principes de l'Harmonie by Jean-Adam Serre: An Annotated Translation	Florida State University	November 1994
Johnson, Shersten R.	Hearing the Unvoiceable: Writer's Block in Benjamin Britten's Death in Venice	University of Wisconsin--Madison	August 2002
Joichi, Janet M.	Closure, Context, and Hierarchical Grouping in Music: A Theoretical and Empirical Investigation	Northwestern University	June 2006
Jones, Jr. Melvin E	Key Classes and Textural Dissonance: An Instrument-Specific Study of the Idioms, Textures, and Structures of Selected Early Romantic Music for the Guitar (1799-1850)	Indiana University	August 2004
Judd, Cristle Collins	Aspects of Tonal Coherence in the Motets of Josquin	King's College, University of London	January 1993
Julien, Patricia A.	The Structural Function of Harmonic Relations in Wayne Shorter's Early Compositions: 1959-1963	University of Maryland	May 2003
Kaastra, Linda T.	Systematic Approaches to the Study of Cognition in Western Art Music Performance	University of British Columbia	May 2008
Kahr, Michael	Aspects of Context and Harmony in the Music of Clare Fischer	University of Sydney	March 2009
Kallis, Vasilis, C	Modes of Cross-collectional Interaction: A Study of Four Collections in Music by Debussy, Ravel and Scriabin	University of Nottingham	October 2003
Karamahmutoglu, Gulay	Nr:1637 Hamparsum Notation Manuscripts at Istanbul Ataturk Library	ITU Institute of Social Science	December 1999
Kelley, Robert T.	Modulo-Seven Transformations in Post-Functional Music	Florida State University	April 2005
Khannanov, Ildar	Russian Methodology of Music Theory and Analysis	University of California, Santa Barbara	December 2003
Kievman, Carson	Ockeghem and Ligeti: The Music of Transcendence	Princeton University	June 2003
Kim, Jung-Jin	A Barthesian Analysis of Britten's The Holy Sonnets of John Donne, Op. 35	University of Wisconsin-Madison	December 1996
Kim, Kristal B.	Emma Lou Diemer’s Solo Piano Works Through 2010: A Study of Pedagogy and Performance in the Context of 20th- and 21st-Century Music Making 
University of Cincinnati, College-Conservatory of Music	July 2012	Kinton, Leslie
A Documentary Study and Schenkerian Analysis of Dvořák’s Symphony in D minor, op. 70	University of Toronto	November 2008	Kizas, Andrew J.
From Octatonicism to Dodecaphony: A Study of Pitch Organization in Selected Works by Donald Martino	University of Western Ontario	December 2004	Klein, Michael
A Theoretical Study of the Late Music of Witold Lutoslawski: New Interactions of Pitch, Rhythm, and Form	SUNY Buffalo	May 1995	Kleppinger, Stanley V
Tonal Coherence in Copland's Music of the 1940s	Indiana University	May 2006	Klorman, Edward
Multiple Agency in Mozart\'s Chamber Music	CUNY Graduate Center	January 2013	Klug, Gregory Kyle
A Study of Two Biblical Choral Symphonies with an Original Composition	University of Northern Colorado	April 2012	Kochavi, Jonathan, H.
Contextually Defined Musical Transformations	SUNY Buffalo	April 2002	Konov Yavor S.
The first treatise of harpsichord "Les Principes du Clavecin" by Saint Lambert (Paris, M. DCCII)	State Academy of Music	September 1997	Konstantinou, Elena
Nikos Skalkottas: The Piano Music	University of Reading, Reading, U.K.	October 2001	Korstvedt, Benjamin Marcus
The First Edition of Anton Bruckner's Fourth Symphony: Authorship, Production and Reception	University of Pennsylvania	May 1995	Kosovsky, Robert
Bernard Herrmann's Radio Music for the Columbia Workshop	Graduate Center, the City University of New York	September 2000	Krumbholz, Jay
Friedrich Wilhelm Marpurg's Abhandlung von der Fuge	University of Rochester	August 1994	Kurth, Richard B.
Mosaic Isomorphism and Mosaic Polyphony: Balance and Imbalance in Schoenberg's Twelve-tone Rhetoric	Harvard University	April 1993	Kuusi, Tuire
Set-Class and Chord: Examining Connection between Theoretical Resemblance and Perceived Closeness	Sibelius Academy	November 2001	Kwan, Kenneth
Compositional Design in Recent Works of Chou Wen Chung	SUNY Buffalo	September 1995	Kye, Hee Seng
The Third Voice: Anima as Drama in Mozart\'s Operas	The University of Hong Kong	May 2015	LaCour, Darren A.
The Long-Playing Ellington: Analyzing Composition and Collaboration in the Duke Ellington Orchestra	Washington University in St. Louis	April 2016	Lai, Eric C.
A Theory of Pitch Organization in the Early Music of Chou Wen-chung	Indiana University	May 1994	Laine, Pauli A.
A Method for Musical Motion Patterns	University of Helsinki	April 2000	Lapidaki, Eleni
Consistency of Tempo Judgments as a Measure of Time Experience in Music Listening	Northwestern University, School of Music	June 1996	Laurson, Mikael
"PATCHWORK: A Visual Programming Language and some Musical Applications"	Sibelius Academy	April 1996	Lavacek, Justin
Contrapuntal Confrontation and Expressive Signification in the Motets of Machaut	Indiana University	December 2011	Lavengood, Megan L.
A New Approach to the Analysis of Timbre	City University of New York	May 2017	Lehman, Frank M
Reading Tonality Through Film: Transformational Hermeneutics and the Music of Hollywood	Harvard University	May 2012
Leinberger, Charles F.	An Austrian in Hollywood: Leitmotifs, Thematic Transformation & Key Relationships in Max Steiner\'s 1942 Film Score, Now, Voyager	The University of Arizona	December 1996
Leinberger, Charles, F.	"An Austrian in Hollywood: Leitmotifs and Thematic Transformation in Max Steiner's Film Score 'Now, Voyager'"	University of Arizona	May 1996
Lemieux, Glenn C.	"Music in Twelve Parts" by Philip Glass: Reconstruction, Construction and Deconstruction	University of Iowa	June 1999
Leong, Daphne	A Theory of Time-Spaces for the Analysis of Twentieth-Century Music: Applications to the Music of Bela Bartok	Eastman School of Music	April 1999
Lerch, Alexander	Software-Based Extraction of Objective Parameters from Music Performances	Technical University Berlin	November 2008
Letts, Marianne Tatom	"How to Disappear Completely": Radiohead and the Resistant Concept Album	University of Texas at Austin	December 2005
Lewis, Kate G.	Mothers and Sisters: Instrument and Idiom in the Music of Maybelle Carter, Memphis Minnie and Sister Rosetta Tharpe	University of Surrey	August 2018
Leydon, Rebecca V.	Narrative Strategies and Debussy's Late Style	McGill University	December 1996
Lilja, Esa	Theory and Analysis of Classic Heavy Metal Harmony	University of Helsinki	October 2009
Lima, Paulo C.	Surface and Structure in the Music of Ernst Widmer: Octatonic Compositional Strategies	Universidade de São Paulo (USP - Brasil)	October 2000
Lin, Pin Hsin	Synergies between East Asian and Western Classical Musical Aesthetics	University of California, Los Angeles	November 2016
Lin, Wei-Chieh	In Search of Time: Musical Time and Form in Dérive 2 by Pierre Boulez	The Juilliard School	May 2012
Lind, Stephanie K	Replicative Network Structures: Theoretical Definitions and Analytical Applications	University of British Columbia	January 2009
Link, John, F.	Long-Range Polyrhythms in Elliott Carter's Recent Music	City University of New York	January 1994
Linklater, Mary L.	From Procedure to Technique: Canonic Works of the Fifteenth Century	University of Rochester	May 2001
Lippus, Urve	Linear Musical Thinking	University of Helsinki	April 1995
Lipscomb, Scott D.	Cognition of musical and visual accent structure alignment in film and animation	University of California, Los Angeles	March 1995
Longo, Lauren, M.	Pietro Gianotti's Le Guide du compositeur: A Reworking of Rameau's "L'Art de la basse fondamentale"--An Annotated Translation and Critical Edition of Part I	City University of New York	July 1997
Lopes, Eduardo	Just In Time: towards a theory of rhythm and metre	University of Southampton	March 2003
Lorenz, Ralph	Pedagogical Implications of musica practica in Sixteenth-Century Wittenberg	Indiana University	March 1994
Losada, C. Catherine	A Theoretical Model for Collage in Music Derived from Selected Works by Berio, Zimmermann and Rochberg	City University of New York Graduate Center	August 2004
Louden, Sarah J	Cross-Sensory Perception in Music and Visual Media: A Neurocognitive Approach to Multimedia Counterpoint	University at Buffalo SUNY	April 2018
Love, Stefan E	On Phrase Rhythm in Jazz	University of Rochester	April 2011
Lowe, Bethany L.	Performance, Analysis, and Interpretation in Sibelius's Fifth Symphony	University of Southampton	November 2000
Luchese, Diane	Olivier Messiaen's Slow Music: Glimpses of Eternity in Time	Northwestern University	May 1998
Ludwig, Alexander R	Three-Part Expositions in the String Quartets of Joseph Haydn	Brandeis University	August 2010
Lundberg, Mattias O.	The Tonus Peregrinus in the Polyphony of the Western Church	University of Liverpool	June 2007
MacKay, James S.	Motivic Structure and Tonal Organization in Selected Motets of William Byrd	McGill University	August 1999
Mailman, Joshua B.	Temporal Dynamic Form in Music: Atonal, Tonal, and Other	Eastman School of Music, University of Rochester	April 2010
Mak, Su Yin	Structure, Design, and Rhetoric: Variation Procedures in Selected Instrumental and Vocal Works by Franz Schubert	Eastman School of Music	January 2009
Mak, Su Yin.	Structure, Design, and Rhetoric: Variation Procedures in Selected Instrumental and Vocal Works by Franz Schubert	Eastman School of Music	December 1997
Malawey, Victoria L.	Temporal Process, Repetition, and Voice in Björk's Medúlla	Indiana University Bloomington	December 2007
MANICA, Solon Santana	Musical Interpretation and Narrativity: study applied to Aboio Op.65 for solo flute by Paulo Costa Lima	Universidade Federal da Bahia	September 2016
Marie, George T	Tiny Infinity for Orchestra and Stefan Wolpe\'s Zone Technique and Ralph Shapey\'s Late Music: An Intensive Analysis of String Quartet No. 9	University of Utah	August 2014
Marlowe, Sarah R.	Fugue in Context: A Schenkerian Approach to Select Works by J.S. Bach and Dmitri Shostakovich	Eastman School of Music of the University of Rochester	October 2013
Martens, Peter A.	Beat-Finding, Listener Strategies, and Musical Meter	University of Chicago	June 2005
Martins, José Oliveira	Dasian, Guidonian, and other Affinity Spaces in Twentieth-Century Music	University of Chicago	March 2006
McCallum, Peter, H.J.	The Analytical Significance of Beethoven's Sketches for the String Quartet in F major, opus 135	University of Sydney	March 1995
McCandless, Gregory R.	Rhythm and Meter in the Music of Dream Theater	Florida State University	January 2010
McClatchie, Stephen	Alfred Lorenz as Theorist and Analyst	The University of Western Ontario	April 1994
McDonnell, Cari E	Genre in Context: the Musical in Classical Hollywood	The University of Texas at Austin	August 2015
McDonnell, Donald R.	Roger Sessions' Symphony No. 3, First Movement: Form, Hexachordal Polarity, and Harmonic Language (and) Nexus/Dreamscape for Chamber Ensemble. (Original Composition)	Brandeis University	February 1994
McGinness, John, R.	"Playing with Debussy's Jeux: Music and Modernism"	University of California, Santa Barbara	September 1996
McGowan, James J	Dynamic Consonance in Selected Piano Performances of Tonal Jazz	University of Rochester	February 2005
McKee, Eric, J.	The Interaction of Tonal Structure and Phrase Structure as an Aspect of Form in Tonal Music	University of Michigan	April 1994
Mengozzi, Stefano	Between Humanistic Ideals and Scientific Thought in Glareanus's Dodecachordon
University of Chicago	March 1997	Metz, Andreas
Temporality, Pace, and Formal Structure in Selected Passages from Brahms\'s Adagio Genre	Indiana University	May 2014	Meyer, Kati M
Emotion in the Music of Elton John	University of Iowa	May 2016	Michaelsen, Garrett
Analyzing Musical Interaction in Jazz Improvisations of the 1960s	Indiana University	July 2013	Mooney, Kevin
The Table of Relations and Music Psychology in Hugo Riemann's Harmonic Theory	Columbia University	December 1995	Moreno, Enrique I.
Embedding Equal Pitch Spaces and The Question Of Expanded	Stanford University	December 1995	Morse, Michael William
The Tune in Jazz as a Social Process--Prolegomena to a Sociology of Music	York University	April 1996	Moseley, Brian C.
Twelve-Tone Cartography: Space, Chains and Intimations of \'Tonal Form\' in Webern\'s Twelve-Tone Music	CUNY Graduate Center	August 2013	Motazedian, Tahirih
To Key or Not to Key: Tonal Design in Film Music	Yale University	December 2016	Mullin, Carolyn D.
Global Coherence in Selected Atonal Works of Anton Webern	University of Oregon	June 2005	Murphy, Nancy E.
\"The Times They Are A-Changin\'\": Flexible Meter and Text Expression in 1960s and 70s Singer-Songwriter Music	The University of British Columbia	December 2015	Murphy, Paul T.
The Thoroughbass Theory of Jose de Torres y Martinez Bravo with an Annotated Translation of Reglas Generales (1736)	The University of Texas at Austin	May 1995	Mutch, Caleb M
Studies in the History of the Cadence	Columbia University	June 2015	Naxer, Meghan
Malleable Mindsets: Rethinking Instructional Design in Undergraduate Music Theory	University of Oregon	June 2016	Nelson, Mark, D
Quieting the Mind, Manifesting Mind: The Zen Buddhist Roots of John Cage's Early Chance-Determined and Indeterminate Compositions	Princeton University	February 1995	Nelson, Richard B.
Theories of Harmonic Modulation in Selected German Treatises of the Eighteenth Century	Eastman School of Music	December 1983	Nelson, Thomas K.
The Fantasy of Absolute Music	University of Minnesota	June 1998	Newton, Alex
Semiotics of Music, Semiotics of Sound, and Film: Toward a Theory of Acousticons	The University of Texas-Austin	June 2015	Ng, Samuel
A Grundgestalt Interpretation of Metric Dissonance in the Music of Johannes Brahms	Eastman School of Music, University of Rochester	July 2005	Nicholson, G. Gordon
The Experience of Successful Contemporary Classical Musical Composition for Non-Computer-Assisted Performance: A Qualitative Study	Saybrook Institute, San Francisco, CA	November 1997	Nivans, David B.
Brahms and the Binary Sonata: A Structuralist Interpretation	University of California, Los Angeles	January 1992	Nobile, Drew F.
A Structural Approach to the Analysis of Rock Music	CUNY Graduate Center	December 2013	Noll, Thomas
Morphologische Grundlagen der abendlaendischen Harmonik (Morphological Foundations of Occidental Harmony)	Technical University of Berlin	July 1995	Novak, John, K.
The Programmatic Orchestral Works of Leos Janacek: Their Style And Their Musical and Extramusical Content	The University of Texas at Austin	May 1994	NWAMARA, Alvan-Ikoku Okwudiri
CONTEMPORARY ART MUSIC FOR CHRISTIAN WORSHIP IN IGBO LITURGY:	ORIGINAL COMPOSITIONS IN AFRICAN IDIOM WITH BIBLICAL TEXTS
Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka. Nigeria	August 2008	O Maidin, Donncha Sean
A Programmer's Environment for Music Analysis	National University of Ireland at University College Cork	October 1995	O'Donnell, Shaugn J.
Transformational Voice Leading in Atonal Music	City University of New York	March 1997	Ofcarcik, Judith
A Structural-Aesthetic Study of the Variation Movements of Beethoven\'s Late Period\"	Florida State University	May 2013	Ohriner, Mitchell S.
DURATIONAL CONTOURS AND ENACTED MEANING IN RECORDED PERFORMANCES OF CHOPIN’S PIANO MUSIC	Indiana University	July 2011	Oinas, Cecilia E.
\'Magic points\' and evaded cadences. Analysis, performance, and their interaction in four opening piano trio movements of Felix Mendelssohn and Robert Schumann.	The Sibelius Academy of the University of the Arts Helsinki	February 2017	Oravitz, Michael
Metric Patterning and its Effects on Phrasing and Form in Selected Debussy Preludes	Indiana University	July 2005	Osborn, Brad T. 
Beyond Verse and Chorus: Experimental Formal Structures in Post-Millennial Rock Music	University of Washington	June 2010	O\'Hara, William E.
The Art of Recomposition: Creativity, Aesthetics, and Music Theory	Harvard University	May 2017	Pacun, David E.
Large-scale Form in Selected Variation Sets of Johannes Brahms	University of Chicago	December 1998	Paget, Laurie
The Madrigals of Marc'Antonio Ingegneri	University of London	June 1995	Paley, Elizabeth S.
Narratives of 'Incidental' Music in German Romantic Theater	University of Wisconsin-Madison	July 1998	Palfy, Cora S.
Musical Agency as Intersubjective Phenomenon	Northwestern University	April 2015	Palmer, James K N
Form-Functional and Topical Sources of Humour in Classical Instrumental Music	University of British Columbia	August 2015	Palombini, C. V.
Pierre Schaeffer's Typo-Morphology of Sonic Objects	University of Durham	September 1992	Pausina, Melissa A
"Bartleby": An Intertextual Music Drama.	Temple University	January 2010	Pellegrin, Richard S.
On Jazz Analysis: Schenker, Salzer, and Salience	University of Washington	June 2013	Perlman, Marc A.
Unplayed Melodies: Music Theory in Postcolonial Java	Wesleyan University	August 1993	Peter M. van Tour
Counterpoint and Partimento: The Teaching of Composition in Late Eighteenth-Century Naples.	Uppsala University	May 2015	Peterson, John R
NTENTIONAL ACTIONS: A THEORY OF MUSICAL AGENCY	Florida State University	December 2014	Petrocelli, Paolo
William Walton and the Violin Concerto in England between the 1900 and 1940	University of Rome	December 2007	Polyvios, Androutsos
Development and Experimental Implementation of a Model of Teaching the History of Music in Secondary Education	Aristotle University of Thessaloniki	December 2002	Porterfield, Richard
Melodic Function and Modal Process in Gregorian Chant	CUNY Graduate Center	December 2013	Post, William D.
Part One: Emanations for Orchestra (original composition); Part Two: Anton Webern and the Golden Ratio: Temporal Proportions as a Formative Principle in Three Late Works, Opp. 27-29.	Kent State University	May 2007	Poudrier, Ève
Toward a general theory of polymeter: Polymetric potential and realization in Elliott Carter's solo and chamber instrumental works after 1980	City University of New York	September 2008	Power, Richard S.
An Analysis of Transformation Procedures in Gyorgy Ligeti's String Quartet No. 2	University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign	July 1995	Powles, Jonathan C.
Continuity and Discontinuity in the Music of Stravinsky: Analysis, Theory and Meta-Theory	University of Oxford	March 1995	Pye, Richard, C.
The Music of William Schuman	University of Newcastle	January 1999	Quaglia, Bruce, W.
Compositional Practice and Analytic Technique; Schoenberg’s Atonal Works: Reconciling Approaches to Sets, Lines and Developing Variation	University of Utah	October 1998	Rabinovitch, Gilad
Tracing Galant Threads: Gjerdingen\'s Schemata and the Evolution of Musical Form, 1730-1780	Eastman School of Music, University of Rochester	July 2015	Raickovich, Milos
Einstein on the Beach" by Philip Glass: A Musical Analysis	City University of New York	May 1994	Randall, Richard R.
A General Theory of Comparative Music Analysis	University of Rochester, Eastman School of Music	May 2006	Ratay, Elizabeth L
To Be Reflected	University of California, Santa Cruz	December 2013	Reddick, Carissa A
Formal Fusion and Rotational Overlap in Sonata Forms from the Chamber Music of Brahms, Dvořák, Franck, and Grieg	University of Connecticut	November 2009
Reese, Alan M.	Analytical Approaches to the Middle-Period Compositions of Karol Szymanowski	Eastman School of Music, University of Rochester	June 2018
REGO, Eusiel	Fernando Sor e as transcrições Opus 19 para violão de Seis árias escolhidas de A flauta mágica de Mozart: uma abordagem estético-analítica	University of São Paulo	October 2012
Reid, Leah C	Composing Timbre Spaces, Composing Timbre in Space: An Exploration of the Possibilities of Multidimensional Timbre Representations and their Compositional Applications	Stanford University	June 2013
Ricci, Adam	A Theory of the Harmonic Sequence	Eastman School of Music, University of Rochester	May 2004
Richards, Mark C.	Analyzing Tension and Drama in Beethoven’s First-Movement Sonata Forms	University of Toronto	April 2011
Richards, William H.	Transformation and Generic Interaction in the Early Serial Music of Igor Stravinsky	University of Western Ontario	June 2003
Richardson, Mark D.	Igor Stravinsky\'s Agon (1953-57): Pitch-Related Processes in the Serial Movements and Rhythm in the Named Dance Movements Described in De Lauze\'s Apologie de la Danse (1623)	Florida State University	May 1996
Riddick, Frank C.	An Analytical Study of Zemlinsky's Second String Quartet	University of Colorado, Boulder	May 1994
Rifkin, Deborah	Tonal Coherence in Prokofiev's Music: A Study of the Interrelationships of Structure, Motives, and Design	Eastman School of Music	April 2000
Riley, Matthew J	Attentive Listening: The Concept of Aufmerksamkeit and its Significance in German Musical Thought, 1770-1790	University of London	June 2000
Ripley, Angela N.	Surviving Set Theory: A Pedagogical Game and Cooperative Learning Approach to Undergraduate Post-Tonal Music Theory
The Ohio State University	July 2015	Rivest, Johanne
Le Concert for Piano and Orchestra de John Cage ou les limites de l'indetermination ("John Cage's Concert for Piano and Orchestra: the limits of indeterminacy")	Universite de Montreal	September 1996	Robison, Brian Carl
Carmen arcadiae mechanicae perpetuum: Toward a methodology for analyzing Harrison Birtwistle\'s music since 1977	Cornell University	August 1999	Rockwell, Joti
Drive, Lonesomeness, and the Genre of Bluegrass Music	University of Chicago	June 2007	Rodrigues, Higo H
EDWARD ELGAR’S EXTENDED TONAL PROCEDURES—AN INQUIRY INTO ELGAR’S CHROMATIC REALM	University of Kentucky	December 2014	Rogers, Nancy M.
The Role of Verbal Encoding in Memory for Musical Timbre and Pitch Patterns	University of Rochester	July 2000	Roller, Jonathan B
An Analysis of Selected Movements from the Symphonies of Charles Ives Using Linear and Set Theoretical Analytical Models	University of Kentucky	October 1995	Romig, James
Twelve-Tone Rhythmic Structure and its Application to Form: Time-Point Nesting and Rotation in 'Spin'	Rutgers University	April 2000	Rosenberg, Nancy E.
From Rock Music to Theory Pedagogy: Rethinking U.S. College Music Theory Education from a Popular Music Perspective	Boston University	January 2010	Rosenhaus, Steven L.
Harmonic Motion in George Perle's Wind Quintet No.4	New York University	May 1995	Rothstein, Evan J.
The Tradition of Developing Variation and the Problem of ‘Folkloristic’ Music in Ives’s First Violin Sonata	Indiana University	May 2001	Roy, Subroto, M C
Examining Avartan in Khayal	University of Pune, India	May 2008	Rubin, Anna, I.
Forêt Profonde: The Narrative, Sonic and Reception Design of Francis Dhomont's Forêt Profonde	Princeton University	January 1999	Rudman, Jessica L.
Common-tone Preserving Contextual Inversions in the Music of Ellen Taaffe Zwilich	The Graduate Center, City University of New York	April 2015	Rupprecht, Philip, E.
Tonal Stratification and Conflict in the Music of Benjamin Britten	Yale University	November 1993	Russell, Todd B.
Rhythm in Music: A Comparative Analysis of the Two Versions of Opus 18, No. 1 String Quartet (I, IV) by Beethoven	University of Kentucky	July 1993	Rust, Douglas, M.
A Theory of Form for Lutoslawski's Late Symphonic Works	Yale University	September 1994	Sabin, Robert W
GARY PEACOCK: ANALYSIS OF PROGRESSIVE DOUBLE BASS IMPROVISATION 1963-1965	New York University	January 2015	Sachania, Millan
The Arrangements of Leopold Godowsky: An Aesthetic, Historical, and Analytical Study	University of Cambridge, England	July 1997	Salamone, Jennifer L.
Misbehaving Minuets: A Preliminary Theory of Humor and Dance Form in Haydn\'s Opp. 76 and 77	University of Kentucky	April 2017	Sampaio, Marcos da Silva
The Musical Contour Relations Theory: inconsistencies, solutions and tools	Universidade Federal da Bahia	December 2012	Samplaski, Arthur G.
A Comparison of Perceived Chord Similarity and Predictions of Selected Twentieth-Century Chord-Classification Schemes, Using Multidmensional Scaling and Cluster Analysis	Indiana University	April 2000	Samuels, Robert
Semiotics and Mahler: Analyses of Musical Signification in the Sixth Symphony	Cambridge University	September 1993	Sandell, Gregory, J.
Concurrent Timbres in Orchestration: A Perceptual Study of Factors Determining 'Blend'	Northwestern University	December 1991	Sant \' Ana, Edson Hansen
Intervalar Expressivity in the Almeida Prado\'s Poesilúdios	Universidade de Brasília (UnB)	August 2009	Santa, Matthew S.
Studies in Post-Tonal Diatonicism: A Mod7 Perspective	City University of New York	May 1999	Saunders, Michael, D.
A Computer-based Notation for the Process of Musical Composition	University of Wales, Cardiff	September 1998	Schubert, Joseph E.
The Solo Organ Works of Jean-Jacques Grunenwald: 	Style Analysis and Context within the Twentieth-century French Organ Culture	Claremont Graduate University	October 2018
Schuijer, Michiel	Pitch-Class Set Theory and the Construction of Musical Competence	University of Utrecht	September 2005
Schultz, Rob	A Diachronic-Transformational Theory of Musical Contour Relations	University of Washington	June 2009
Schumann, Scott C.	Making the Past Present: Topics in Stravinsky’s Neoclassical Works	The University of Texas at Austin	April 2015
Scotto, Ciro, G.	Can Non-Tonal Systems Support Music as Richly as Tonal Systems?	University of Washington	December 1995
Scrivener, Julie A.	Representations of Time and Space in the Player Piano Studies of Conlon Nancarrow	Michigan State University	May 2002
Searby, Michael D	An investigation of the transformation of compositional process in György Ligeti's music 1974-85, with particular reference to pitch	Goldsmiths College. London	July 2006
Sekula, Kate A.	Utilizing Computer Programming to Analyze Post-Tonal Music: A Segmentation and Contour Analysis of Twentieth-Century Music for Solo Flute	University of Connecticut	December 2014
Seltzer, Linda, A.	The Unblinking Eye, Literary Theory in the Analysis of Debussy's Pelleas et Melisande	Princeton University	0000
Selvafiorita, Fabio	Genesi della forma nella Composizione Assistita al Computer: modelli teorici e prospettive poietiche nel'ambiente di programmazione OpenMusic (Genesis of form in Computer Aided Composition: theoretical models and poietical perspective)	Bologna University	January 2007
Serebrennikov, Maxim	The Keyboard Thorough-bass Fugue of the Baroque Era	The State Institute of Art Studies, Moscow	October 2013
Sheehan, Paul J.	Twelve-Tone Enitities, Inquisitorial Mind, and the Network Model of the Multitude: Analyzing Luigi Dallapiccola's Il prigioniero	Columbia University	November 2007
Sheinberg, Ester	The Semantics Of Irony In Shostakovich	University Of Edinburgh, Scotland	June 1995
Shelley, Peter J	Rethinking Minimalism: At the Intersection of Art and Music	University of Washington	June 2013
Sherrill, Paul M.	The Metastasian Da Capo Aria: Moral Philosophy, Characteristic Actions, and Dialogic Form	Indiana University	May 2016
Short, Rachel E.	Musical Feet: The Interaction of Choreography and Music in Leonard Bernstein and Jerome Robbins’s Ballet Fancy Free	University of California, Santa Barbara	September 2016
Silberman, Peter S.	Neighbor Spaces: A Theory of Harmonic Embellishment for Twentieth-Century Neotonal Music	Eastman School of Music	May 2006
Simpson, Jasba	Cochlear Modeling of Sensory Dissonance and Chord Roots	University Of Waterloo	April 1994
Slottow, Stephen P.	A Vast Simplicity: Pitch Organization in the works of Carl Ruggles	Graduate Center, City University of New York	April 2001
Smith, Kathleen Biddick	Musical Process in Selected Works by Michael Torke	Florida State University	May 2009
Sofer, Danielle, S	Making Sex Sound: Erotic Currents in Electronic Music	University of Music and Performing Arts Graz	June 2016
Solomon, Jason W.	Spatialization in Music: The Analysis and Interpretation of Spatial Gestures	University of Georgia	May 2007
Solomon, Larry Joseph	Symmetry as a Determinant of Musical Composition	West Virginia University	February 1973
Spicer, Mark	British Pop-Rock Music in the Post-Beatles Era: Three Analytical Studies	Yale University	December 2001
Spicker, Volker	New Piano Improvisation	University of Giessen, Germany	December 1997
Spiegelberg, Scott C.	The Psychoacoustics of Musical Articulation	Eastman School of Music	January 2002
Squibbs, Ronald, J.	Analytical Issues in Recent Instrumental Works of Iannis Xenakis	Yale University	March 1996
Steege, Benjamin A.	Material Ears: Hermann von Helmholtz, Attention, and Modern Aurality	Harvard University	April 2007
Steenstra, Sytze G.	We Are The Noise Between Stations: A philosophical exploration of the work of David Byrne, at the crossroads of popular media	Maastricht University, The Netherlands	June 2003
Steffen, Ralph Martin	Metalogik: The Music Theory of Walter Harburger	University of California, Santa Barbara	June 1999
Steinbeck, Paul	Urban Magic: The Art Ensemble of Chicago's Great Black Music	Columbia University	May 2008
Stocken, Frederick	Anton Bruckner and Simon Sechter's Fundamental Bass Theory	Manchester University, UK	December 2007
Stover, Chris	A Theory of Flexible Rhythmic Spaces for Diasporic African Music	University of Washington	December 2009
Sundin, Nils-Goran	Aesthetic Criteria for Musical Interpretation: A Study of the Contemporary Performance of Western Notated Instrumental Music after 1750	University of Jyvaskyla, Finland	August 1994
Svistoonoff, Katherine A.	Cosmopolitanism in Two Twentieth-Century Piano Sonatas	University of Houston	January 2011
Tan, Daphne	Ernst Kurth at the Boundary of Music Theory and Psychology	Eastman School of Music, University of Rochester	April 2013
Taylor, Stephen Andrew	The Lamento Motif: Metamorphosis in Ligeti's Late Style	Cornell University	May 1994
Telesco, Paula J.	Enharmonicism in Theory and Practice in 18th-Century Music	The Ohio State University	August 1993
Thibodeau, Michael A	Performance Approach in the Recorded History of Alban Berg\'s Piano Sonata, Op. 1	University of Toronto	December 2017
Thiebaut, Ines	Symmetry and Interval Cycles in the Quartettos of Mario Davidovsky	CUNY Graduate Center	September 2016
Thomas, Margaret E.	Conlon Nancarrow's 'Temporal dissonance': Rhythmic and Textural Stratification in the Studies for Player Piano	Yale University	March 1996
Thurmaier, David P	Time and Compositional Process in Charles Ives's Holidays Symphony	Indiana University	May 2006
Tjoeme, Berit K.	The Articulation of Sonata Form in Atonal Works by Fartein Valen. Analyses of his Violin Concerto, Op. 37 and Symphony No. 3, Op. 41.	University of Oslo	August 1995
Tobiason, Anders	Non-Assimilation in Schubert Song	University of Wisconsin, Madison	April 2013
Tompkins, Daniel C.	Early Seventeenth-Century Harmonic Practice: A Corpus Study of Tonality, Modality, and Harmonic Function in Italian Secular Song with Baroque Guitar Accompaniment in Alfabeto Tablature	Florida State University	March 2017
Tong, Chee-yee, J.	Separate Discourses: A Study of Performance and Analysis	University of Southampton	October 1994
Tsougras, Costas, F	Generative Theory of Tonal Music and Modality - Research based on the analysis of "44 Greek miniatures" by Yannis Constantinidis	Aristotle University of Thessaloniki	March 2002
Tucker, Gary R.	Tonality and Atonality in Alban Berg's Four Songs, Op. 2	University of Western Ontario	August 1995
Turner, Mitchell M.	Toward a General Theory of Pitch Structure: Unity Between Horizontal and Vertical Pitch-Class Sets	University of Georgia	December 1999
Uno, Yayoi	Avant-garde Music circa 1950-60: Analysis of Works by Boulez, Cage, Babbitt, and Xenakis	University of Rochester	September 1993
Väisälä, Olli	Prolongation in Early Post-Tonal Music: Analytical Examples and Theoretical Principles	Sibelius Academy	June 2004
Vachon, Pierre	Study of titles in the Piano Works of Robert Schumann, their function and meaning	Universite de Montreal	May 1998
Van Colle, S. J.	Music therapy process with young people who have severe and multiple disabilities	University of Reading	January 2003
Van Colle, Sue, J	Music therapy process with cerebral palsied children: connections with psychoanalytic models, particularly that of Winnicott	University of Reading, Department of Music	October 1999
van Tour, Peter M.	Counterpoint and Partimento: Methods of Teaching Composition in Late
Eighteenth-Century Naples	Uppsala University, Sweden	May 2015	Varney, John Charles
Colombian Bambuco: The Evolution of a National Music Style	Griffith University	June 1999	Vives, Thomas E.
The Effect of Timbre on the Chord Identification Accuracy of Sophomore-Level College Music Theory Students	University of Florida	August 1998	Vlagopoulos Panos
Le noble rhetorique: Mental Models in the Song Production of Guillaume de Machaut	Ionion State University	June 1998	Vojcic, Aleksandra
Rhythms as Form: Rhythmic Hierarchy in Later Twentieth-Century Piano Music	Graduate Center CUNY	January 2009	Vurkaç, Mehmet
Prestructuring Multilayer Perceptrons based on Information-Theoretic Modeling of a Partido-Alto-based Grammar for Afro-Brazilian Music: Enhanced Generalization and Principles of Parsimony, including an Investigation of Statistical Paradigms	Portland State University	December 2011	Wacker, Lori J.
Rhythmic and motivic procedures in selected late works of S.C. Eckhardt-Gramatte	Indiana University	May 1999	Walker, Jonathan
The Work-Concept in Music and Musicology: A Philosophical Study." (provisional title) Queen's University Belfast, School of Music, 1996	Queen's University Belfast	September 1996	Wang, Yuhwen
The Value of Values: Value Judgment in Edward T. Cone's Music Analyses	Columbia University	December 1996	Waters, Keith, J.
Rhythmic and Contrapuntal Structures in the Music of Arthur Honegger	Eastman School of Music	January 1997	Waters, William J.
A Study of Temporal Change in the Recorded Performances of Igor Stravinsky's, `The Rite of Spring'	Florida State University	December 1995	Weiss, Michael
Theoretical and Analytical Reflections on the Role of Robert O. Gjerdingen\'s Galant Schemata in Nineteenth-century Composition	University of Auckland	May 2018	Weisser, Benedict J.
Notational Practice in Contemporary Music: A Critique of Three Compositional Models (Luciano Berio, John Cage, and Brian Ferneyhough)	The City University of New York	July 1998	Wells, Robert L.
A Generalized Intervallic Approach to Metric Conflict	Eastman School of Music	November 2014	Weytjens, Stephan
Text as a Crutch in Arnold Schoenberg’s “Pierrot Lunaire” op. 21? An Analysis of the Relationship between Textual Aspects and Musical Structure in Free Atonality	Catholic University of Leuven	December 2003	Wiens, Carl K.
Igor Stravinsky and Agon	University of Michigan	January 1997	Wiering, Frans
The Language of the Modes. Studies in the History of Polyphonic Modality	University of Amsterdam	August 1995	Wilde, Howard
Towards a New Theory of Voice-Leading Structure in Sixteenth-Century Polyphony	University of London	July 1995	Wile, Kip, D.
A Study of Collection in Neocentric Music	University of Chicago	August 1994	Wilkinson, Carlton J.
Symphony in Five Movements: A Presentation and Analytical Discussion of a New Work in a Symphonic Form	Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey	January 1995	Williams, Justin A
Musical Borrowing in Hip-hop Music: Theoretical Frameworks and Case Studies	University of Nottingham	September 2009	Windsor, Luke W.
A Perceptual Approach to the Description and Analysis of Acousmatic Music	City University, London	September 1995	Wright, James K.
Schoenberg, Wittgenstein, and the Vienna Circle: Epistemological Meta-Themes in Harmonic Theory, Aesthetics, and Logical Positivism	McGill University	February 2002	Yorgason, Brent 
Expressive Asynchrony and Meter: A Study of Dispersal, Downbeat Space, and Metric Drift	Indiana University	August 2009	Yoshikawa, Christine M
Rachmaninoff’s Integrative Technique and Structural Organization: A Schenkerian Analysis of Allegro Moderato, from Piano Sonata No. 1 in D Minor, Opus 28	Arizona State University	May 2004	Yust, Jason D
Formal Models of Prolongation	University of Washington	November 2006	Zagalaz, Juan C.
Innovaciones melódico - armónicas en la improvisación Jazzística. Un recorrido a través de Body and Soul. (1935 -1945).	Universidad de Jaén	January 2010	Zamzow, Beth Ann
The Influence of the Liturgy on the Fifteenth-Century English Carols	The University of Iowa	May 2000
