Music is made up of many small repeated patterns (Margulis, 2014). 
Research in music perception demonstrates that these patterns are learned implicitly (Rohrmeier & Rebuschat, 2012), and importantly, they are related to listern’s sense of musical anticipation (Huron, 2006). 
While research on patterns and music has established how these patterns are related to expectancy and melodic segmentation (Pearce, 2018), how music’s repetitive nature affects a listener’s load on memory has not been explored to the same extent. 

This paper presents a novel theory of music perception that links music’s repetitive structure to the limits of working memory. 
I first draw from research in cognitive psychology that hypothesizes that more predictable events are less taxing on memory. 
Given research in music perception based on the statistical learning hypothesis and the probabilistic prediction hypothesis (Pearce, 2018), 
I posit that more predictable musical events would be less taxing on memory as a result of more efficient processing.

To demonstrate this, I provide both evidence from a newly encoded corpus of over 750 melodies and a small, pilot experiment (N = 15). 
I argue that a motive’s frequency distribution in a corpus is related to its load on memory when quantified using the information content measures derived from Pearce’s computational model of auditory cognition. 
The paper concludes by asserting that studying the repeated patterns in music can help inform both work in memory for melodies, as well as music pedagogy. 
I end by further speculating that similar research might provide a useful theoretical link to investigate interactions between musical memory and the finite window of working memory, and thus help answer questions of musical perception.

Audience -- humanities and music cognition 

I. Repeatition 
	Margulis
	How we learn
	Huron
	Pearce (2018)
II. Required Theory 
	SLH 
		Saffran
		Huron 
	PPH 
		Pearce
		All the papers from 2018 that Pearce is good at
	But what about memory?
III. Psychology
	More predictiable events less taxing on memory
		Margulis book example
		This is the learning effect that is a confound in experiments
		(tho could be opposite)
	Tho it could also be that less predictable events are more salient
		FANTASTIC feature paper
		BUT THIS IS RECOGNITION NOT MEMORY 
	So here's the logic
		IF we learn events implicitly 
		AND Those patterns are linked to behavior (see Pearce plethora)
		THEN chains of more expected events would be easier to chunk 
	Duh - this is chunking 
		Look at what Cowan warns about in research on finite window
		All of these examples have to do with music
	Patterns 
		Look at these patterns on a corpus I trained with IDYOM
IV. Corpus
	What sets
		If I said, what sets of notes seem to be more gramatical?
		(Triads, variation of pitch class set 1-4)
	Where did I get these sets?
		Well as part of dissertation research, encoded 750 melodies
		ran n-gram search pattern on the whole thing
		Looked at THIS DISTRIBUTION
		used theorist intuition to find meaningful patterns
	Though could ask you anecodotally, any empriical people would be like... ok 
V. Experiment
	So I ran a small, pilot experiment
	Rationale was IF these are all equally likely to be remembered, no differences
	so i trained corpus on N tonal melodies
	grabbed melodies from top and bottom half, only grabbing first 1,3,5 notes 
	Did correctness analysis with mixed effects and serial recall 
	Also did RT analysis looking at time to think (Metzler) 
	LOOK AT THESE SWEET RESULTS
VI. Conclusions
	Ok, if this is true what does it mean?
	Means that in aural skills, can create a more linear path to sucess among students
	Also have a better way of talking about limits of memory than X notes, maybe IC
	Further, a lot to be investigated about how this finite IC WMC window would play to other phenomea
	Deutsch so strangely effect (replicated by margulis)
	could have to deal with performance choices?
	(certain point a fermata is, in fact too long) 
	
